OSDOCS-17793#Reducing permissions for GCP (#104792)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-reduce-permissions.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-reduce-permissions_{context}"]
= Reducing permissions while using the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator

[role="_abstract"] 

> You can reduce the scope of permissions granted to the main service account in your Google Cloud project while still being able to use the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator.

Reviewer: I suggest a minor change here, to:
A) Describe the default behavior, so the reader has some idea if they care to change the default permissions.
B) Clarify what effect this will have (reduce scope to only the node service accounts required by GCP PD).

Something like:
"The default installation allows GCP PD CSI Driver to impersonate any service account in the Google Cloud project. You can reduce the scope of permissions granted to the GCP PD CSI Driver service account in your Google Cloud project to only the required node service accounts."

Author: Done. Thanks!

[role="_abstract"] 
You can reduce the scope of permissions granted to the main service account in your Google Cloud project while still being able to use the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator.

To reduce permissions, remove the `iam.serviceAccountUser` field from the project-wide service account, and then grant it to the control plane and compute node service accounts instead, thus reducing the scope of the permission.

.Procedure

. Grant scoped `serviceAccountUser` role for node service accounts by running the following Bash script:
+
[source,terminal]
----
SA_USER_ROLE="roles/iam.serviceAccountUser"
logger "INFO" "Granting ${SA_USER_ROLE} for node service accounts: ${MASTER_NODE_SA}, ${WORKER_NODE_SA}"
CMD="gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \"${MASTER_NODE_SA}\" --project=\"${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}\" --member=\"serviceAccount:${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}\" --role=\"${SA_USER_ROLE}\" --condition=None"
run_command "${CMD}"
CMD="gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \"${WORKER_NODE_SA}\" --project=\"${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}\" --member=\"serviceAccount:${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}\" --role=\"${SA_USER_ROLE}\" --condition=None"

> run_command "${CMD}"

Reviewer: I agree with @chao007 , `run_command` is a helper function in the script (to log + run the command) but we don't need it here in the docs. Same for `logger` and `backoff`.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-reduce-permissions_{context}"]
= Reducing permissions while using the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator

[role="_abstract"] 
You can reduce the scope of permissions granted to the main service account in your Google Cloud project while still being able to use the GCP PD CSI Driver Operator.

> To reduce permissions, remove the `iam.serviceAccountUser` field from the project-wide service account, and then grant it to the control plane and compute node service accounts instead, thus reducing the scope of the permission.

Reviewer: Also I'm not sure the best place to note this, but this procedure only applies to GCP clusters using Workload Identity Federation (WIF).

.Procedure

> . Grant scoped `serviceAccountUser` role for node service accounts by running the following Bash script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Grant scoped `iam.serviceAccountUser` role for node service accounts by running the following Bash commands:
```

Author: Done.

run_command "${CMD}"
CMD="gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding \"${WORKER_NODE_SA}\" --project=\"${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}\" --member=\"serviceAccount:${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}\" --role=\"${SA_USER_ROLE}\" --condition=None"
run_command "${CMD}"
----
+
* `GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID`: The unique ID of your Google Cloud project.

* `SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL`: The email address of the "Member" (the person or service account) who is being granted the new permissions.

* `MASTER_NODE_SA`: The email address of the service account used by your cluster's master node.

* `WORKER_NODE_SA`: The email address of the service account used by your cluster's worker nodes.

. Remove project-level `serviceAccountUser` role from the binding created by the installation program by running the following Bash script:
+
[source,terminal]
----
logger "INFO" "Removing ${SA_USER_ROLE} from project-level binding for ${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}"
CMD="gcloud projects remove-iam-policy-binding \"${GOOGLE_PROJECT_ID}\" --member=\"serviceAccount:${SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL}\" --role=\"${SA_USER_ROLE}\" --condition=None"

> backoff "${CMD}"

Author: Done.
